# Disaster Response Robot

The purpose of this project was to develop a disaster response robot that can be sent off into a rescue environment to search for victims. In the wake of a disaster, any delay in emergency response can lead to fatal consequences such as the loss of human life. By creating a robot to act as the first response initiative, we can not only reduce the time needed to find victims, but also reduce the risk to rescuers traversing dangerous environments. These robots can also be made very versatile by including additional features that will aid the rescue search in different situations. For example, the use of infrared cameras enable the robot to be used in dimly lit environments. Additionally, robots can be built small and compact to maneuver tight spaces and difficult terrain. For further designs of this type of robot, more sophisticated technologies such as CO2 sensors could be added for better identification of nearby life. 

The core components that we decided were essential for this particular robot are an infrared camera, temperature sensor, and a photocell sensor to detect the amount of ambient light. This robot also has both an automatic mode and a manual mode that can be used depending on the friendliness of the terrain and the preference of the user. Initially we had planned to make the robot completely autonomous and use the server to relay data back to any users of the robot. However, further consideration of the difficulty of terrain that the robot may encounter compelled us to also add a manual mode. In this way, a user can determine when he/she thinks the terrain is too challenging to rely on the robot’s own ability to navigate. Additionally, we are able to track the robot’s position in the area that we are searching, and display on our website where the robot has travelled. To add use for identifying missing persons, users can log on to our server, upload their own images of missing people from the disaster, and our server offers images that the robot has gathered along its route, tagged with a location. 

While this particular project involved the building of only one robot, we have developed our code with the aim that multiple robots can exist at once. Each robot has its own ID, which allows it to uniquely interface with the server and website. Our current robot is not expected to be completely functional in a real disaster situation, as its components are not environment ready. An actual robot in this situation should be slightly bigger, have stronger motors and have its components more well protected from hazards in the environment. Additionally, our location system for tracking the robot’s position is not as accurate as it should be for real world application. Due to time and money constraints, we created a prototype of what the final product would be and have stayed aware of how we could improve our design for real application throughout the development of the robot. We will discuss this throughout the report. 
